# 【RMU Poems]

(1)

The beer jar is empty,  
But my heart is still hungry.  
I can't wait until January,  
To go back to Wheatley,   
And hug my friend Lisa, Brett, and Betty.

I have the same love for Sani,   
But he is too busy,  
Playing with his AI toy.

I know Fred is very funny,   
But he is also a worker bee,  
His passion is study, not me.

Needless to mention Jin and Alvi,  
They smoke cigs like a hippie;  
They rarely think of me,   
Until their stomachs get empty.  

(2) 

RMU classroom is too squeezy,  
Not to mention that annoying Sani,   
Sitting between you and me.

Let's go to Clearwater Beach  
Enjoy the endless sea.

Oops, there comes topless Freddie,  
Spying on you and me.


(3) 

Author - Fred Hoffman

Since that hotel room encounter  
Strange things going on  
No one at conference was calling me Jay  
Instead they all called me John

Unaware of her ploy   
Used in high tourist season  
Jay strove to dismiss her   
Through facts and through reason

“It’s all a case of A-B-C-D-E,” said Jay  
Hoping his theoretical construct  
Would carry the day

What convinced her to exit  
Was not logic or vocabulary  
But rather Jay’s call  
To the local constabulary

(4)

My heart becomes tender,  
When I am not working on a paper。

I am no fan of science,  
But still want to be a doctor。

Just to keep my mind and soul in order。

(5) Thanksgiving 

Your friendship is dear,  
I want to celebrate with beer;  
But before we cheer,  
Let’s finish our paper。

The end may be near,
But the future is even better。
Until then, 
Let's fight together。

(6) Fred overachiever 

I published two articles this year  
So they called me an overachiever 

But my appetite is never too big  
And my plate is never too full.


